Highs and welcome to this very exciting tutorial Y very exciting.
That's because we're about to get the final outcome of the dream you know right now by building this
variational our encoder.
We're basically making an artificial intelligence dream and right now we're about to implement the decoded
part of the Wii which will decode the latent vectors the obtained skeptically to reconstruct the input
images that are same age I was able to see things through these four convolutions here.
So that's a very big deal.
This is actually the first time I am implementing an IDE that has the ability to dream.
And actually this is the first time for anybody in 2018.
So let's celebrate this special moment.
We're about to make an AI dream with the decoded part of the Wii.
So here we go.
In order to make that happen we have to implement everything from here to the final reconstructed images
which has the same damage.
And so the first thing we have to do is another fully connected layer.
All right so let's do this let's go back to Python and let's create this let's add it in the full architecture
of the Wii and since this is going to be basically a new hit and there we're going to call it age again
and age is going to be a fully connected layer which we can get again by contents of flow then by cutting
the layers Mudgal Blyton's flow.
And from that module we call again the dense function.
And so this Den's function exactly last year is going to take three arguments that we need to answer
the first one is the input vector to which this new dense layer is going to be fully connected.
And of course as we can clearly see in the architecture it's going to be late and vector we caught in
the previous tutorial.
So let's enter this and put self dot zed as it is a variable of our object.
And then remember the second argument is the number of units.
And then there and as we can clearly see here it's going to be 1024 units.
Don't worry about the one times one times here this is because we need to reshape it but we'll do it
right after that.
First of all let's get these 1024 units in the second argument one thousand and twenty four are right.
And then as a final argument we can give a name to that new layer.
This new fully connected layer and since it is indeed a fully connected layer we're going to keep the
F.C. here.
However since we're now dealing with the decoder I'm going to replace ink by Dec and then I'm going
to remove dimmu because now we're simply dealing with a simple fully connected layer.
All right so basically that smashes the first step of building the decoder that is this step here getting
the new fully connected layer.
Then we have to do this reshape here to get indeed a one dimensional vector of one by one by 1024 dimensions
with 1024 elements.
So the way we're going to do this is by adding age again and then as we did before we're going to take
the reshape function by tens of flow.
Here we go.
Then first we need input.
What we want to reshape which is age which right now is just a fully connected layer and nodes get this
one dimensional vector in a one dimensional batch and composed of 1024 elements.
Well we're going to do kind of the same thing as with with you here but this time there's going to be
two more dominations which are corresponding Of course to these dimensions here.
One by one so these new dimensions are just to be 100 percent aligned with the format of the future
reconstructed images because no order to reconstruct them.
We need to have the right dimensions for the future inverted convolutions.
So we're just getting this format by creating these additional dimensions so that we can apply them
inverted or transposed convolutions.
All right so let's add these new diamond in year one by one.
Here we go.
And now we can just give the same or you know replace that by 1024 because indeed that's the number
of elements we want to get in that one dimensional outwardly.
All right so now let's move on to the next step which is finally the start of the deconvolution.
Or more correctly the inverted convolutions.
So we're going to still update age the way we did here.
And we are going to get a sense of of course now from tons of flow we're going to get the letters Mudgal
because it isn't this layer's module that will find what we need.
That is the current 2D transpose function which will do exactly this inverted convolution taking as
input one dimensional vector in a one dimensional batch and then recreating some images which we're
going to do with several inverted convolutions to reconstruct the final images.
So I prepared for you now the comes to the transpose function by tensor of flow but we can see that
the arguments are kind of the same.
They have the same names same inputs filters girl sized dried bedding.
So they are the same and therefore it will be a piece of cake to implement these inverted convolutions.
All right so here we go with the first one.
The first inverted convolution is let's go back to our world models article.
The first word convolution is going to be an inverted convolution with 128 filters of size five by five.
So let's put that exactly the same way we did for the basic convolutions first.
Let's not forget to of course input the input tensor which is of course H.
Right which so far is just a one dimensional vector and then that's where the 128 filters come into
play with a kernel size of five by five.
And then again we're going to have tried to then as we can see if we look at it again a rectifier activation
function.
So we can just actually copy this to be more efficient activation because of that and end up reglue
and then eventually we can give a name to that new first inverted convolutional layer.
And here we go.
We're going to go that this time.
Well first not Anke but tech and then not count but D-Conn. one right.
The first deconvolution all there that's got this way.
All right so now is going to be the real piece of cake because to create the other inversed convolutions
we'll just copy this and we will paste it just below just like that.
And now of course we don't have to replace the input because it is keeping data like a domino.
But we have to replace the number of filters and the name here because indeed we're going to keep the
Belu activation functions and the same kernel size.
So let's see in the previous inverted convolution we had 128 filters and now we're going to have 64
of them.
So let's put that right here.
And the second inverted convolutional layer 64 filters and then deconvolution to our right.
And then let's paste that again.
We can guess the new number of filters which is going to be of course 32 right 32 right here.
But be careful.
A new kernel size of six by six.
I didn't catch that before.
So let this time replace 128 by 32 and 5 by 6.
All right.
Pretty easy right then D-Conn. one we replace it by decomp 3.
And now I'm going to copy this.
I want to lower my options to make any mistake.
Paste.
And what is going to be the final number of filters in the last inverted convolution right.
This is the last one here.
Where are you getting so close to the reconstructed image.
We have to make first of final inverse convolution and this one has three only three filters of size
six by six.
So let's implement that right away.
Three filters and a current size of six.
Perfect.
Then final thing we have to do is to replace the name they're going to come three by take on this Gorgie
come for however.
Now since this is actually the last convolution it is not a hidden layer anymore.
It is the final layer and also wait for it the final reconstructed images and that's why we're not going
to call that age but self that Y which is a new variable of our object that we're introducing and which
is of course the final output of this whole convolutional variational our encoder but now be careful
as most of the final layer is the activation function used is not rectify activation function but indeed
a sigmoid activation function you will see that in most of the art visual neural network architecture
is whether it is a fully connected neural network or a convolutional neural network or even a record
or a neural network.
The final activation function used for the output layer is a sigmoid activation function.
So we're going to replace that reglue activation function by the sigmoid one which is also available
from the neural network and module by tence afloat.
And now everything is all good.
Congratulations you have just given an artificial intelligence the ability to dream.